/*  (ly) : Introduction to Ethical Hacking  */

 Today, cyber threats are everywhere, and are becoming more aggressive, complex and sophisticated.
- Enter the white hat hacker, who protects users by diligently seeking out the weak spots so a company can fine-tune their security posture. 
- In this course, I'll explore today's threat landscape, dissecting the top attack vectors and motives for attacks.
- I'll define ethical hacking and compare the differences between white, grey, and black hat hackers.
- Finally, I'll explain the importance of structured ethical hacking in an organization.

 The goal of the ethical hacking series is to help system administrators understand how to better protect the assets they manage. 
 I'll focus on the concepts of ethical hacking in order to explain why it's essential in any organization's overall security framework.
  Do not investigate individuals, websites, servers, or conduct any illegal activities on any system you do not have permission to analyze.
  

Companies are faced with numerous challenges to protect the infrastructure.
Network environments are complex and can include bring your own device, bring your own application, 
Cloud computing, virtualization, social media and a new technology that is added to the mix on a daily basis.
Coupled with the challenges, cyber threats are becoming more aggressive, complex and sophisticated.
The attacks can include cyber crime, hactivism and espionage.

Every organization and government is a potential target including Sony, Fox, Lockheed Martin, law enforcement, 
Target and many others. The attacks are highly organized by skilled and motivated players and have resulted in
massive amounts of sensitive data such as credit cards, medical data, intellectual property, passwords, and
state secrets being exposed. The increased complexity of current cyber attacks correlates to the shift
towards more aggressive and coordinated mechanisms.

In addition, the attacker profile has changed. Reported hacking activity began as early as 1971 when John Draper 
also known as Captain Crunch developed blue box phone phreaking which is achieved by using frequencies or
tones to manipulate telephone switching hardware in order to make phone calls. In the 1980s, an old school
hacking group called the PHIRM was founded and published guides related to breaching systems and obtaining information.

In March 1986, Dark Creaper of the PHIRM wrote How to Get Anything on Anybody. 
And in 1989, he published a guide hacking Bank of America's home banking system.
The escalation and hacking activity brought a lot of scrutiny, farewell arrests, which led to the group's disbanding.
In 1988, graduate student Robert Morris of Cornell University launched a worm on the fledging ARPANET which 
is a precursor to the internet.

Morris managed to take down about 6000 network government and university systems.
Morris was discharged from Cornell, served three years probation, and was fined $10,000. 
Soon afterward, cybercrime began to intensify. The computer emergency response team or CERT is created by DARPA 
to dress network security. And congress passed the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act in 1989 making it a 
crime to break into computer systems.

The first DEF CON conference took place in Las Vegas in 1993 right after the internet became public.
And the first conference was meant to be a party to say goodbye to hackers and freakers bulletin board systems or BBS.
But the gathering was so popular, it is now an annual event. In May 2000, the I Love You virus or 
Love Bug infected millions of computers around the world within hours of its release.

The virus was sent as an email attachment with I Love You in a subject line. 
When opened, the message was resent to everyone in the recipients Microsoft Outlook address book.
In addition, the Love Bug ate through every JPEG, MP3, and other files on the recipient's hard disk. 
And it's considered to be one of the most destructive worms in history. 
After the attacks on 9/11, the Department of Homeland Security was created and is responsible for 
protecting the United States IT infrastructure.

One of the key components is the EINSTEIN program. An intrusion detection system that monitors the internet 
for unauthorized traffic. You can find out more about the EINSTEIN system on the Department of Homeland Security's website.
Despite the pervasiveness of firewalls, intrusion detection systems, anti-malware and layered security technologies,
attackers are able to penetrate our fragile data with the scale of a surgeon's blade.
Companies fall victim to attacks for a number of reasons.

Mostly do vulnerabilities which include configuration errors, unpatched systems, human error or software flaws.
Companies are hyper vigilant and recognize the importance of human expertise in a complex security architecture. 
As a result, organizations need to continually assess the security measures in place in order to defend against 
ongoing threats. Ethical hacking is an important element of a comprehensive security plan.

As ethical hacking provides a mechanism to test the computer system or a network with a purpose of locating vulnerabilities
that could potentially be exploited so they can be addressed.



 An attack vector is a mechanism by which someone gains unlawful entry into a system and can include email, webpages,
 wireless, automobiles, and the user. 
 The goal is to deliver a malicious payload or other malicious acts by taking advantage of system vulnerabilities or
 known weak spots to gain entry. Old school viruses have been declining. 
 However, serious malware makers have progressed to more aggressive attacks using Trojan horses, rootkits, and spyware.
 Most methods involve programming yet some involve social engineering.

An email and email attachments are one of the original methods to send malware spam and bogus links and continue to
improve in sophistication. Email attachments are handy and are used by just about everyone. 
While antivirus scans are tune to scan for viruses in attachments, modern day malware is polymorphic in nature 
and can change to elude detection. To minimize this attack vector, keep antivirus updated and educate users to
use caution when opening attachments.

Webpages and pop-ups take advantage of the ability browsers have to access various programming languages such as 
JavaScript, ActiveX and macros. When clicked, the malware can install spyware, adware, hijackers, dialers or Trojans 
or other malware. The best defense is to stay away from risky websites. Instant messaging, internet relay chat and 
peer to peer file sharing programs. Many times start with the user having to install custom software to enable the 
service to work.

Unfortunately, this makes your machine vulnerable to an attack. As when the install takes place, the user generally
agrees to an end user license agreement which may include wording that allows additional function or add-ons such as
an app that allows BIT claim on your machine. Avoid these services. But if they must be used, read the end user license
agreement and make sure malware protection is used with egress filtering to block communication with malicious websites.

Wireless networks are pervasive in today's world and provides an attractive attack vector. The 802.11 standard or Wi-Fi
is characteristically insecure and will continue to be more vulnerable to attack than a wired network and that wireless 
is unbounded media. Protect against attacks by minimizing the vulnerabilities by taking advantage of the security 
mechanisms available. A recent attack vector includes the automobile. Most modern vehicles can be hacked.

Research is revealing how fragile modern vehicles, computerized systems can be. As accessing a car's internal network 
can infiltrate computer control systems including brakes and engine. Car manufactures and anti-malware companies are 
looking into vulnerabilities to prevent a hacker from taking control of a number of functions such as brakes, display,
radio, and windshield wipers. Watch and respond to manufacturer's recall notification. In addition, because many attacks
are done through remote connections, be cautious and avoid connecting to a road wireless network which could allow an 
attacker to steal credentials for remote mobile apps.

The most vulnerable attack vector is the user which is the weakest link in any system. Over 600 million people worldwide 
have fallen victim to some sort of cyber crime. That includes online scams, malware and phishing attacks, credit card 
fraud, compromised social-networking profiles, and explicit content. Although humans can be our weakest link, steps 
can be taken to avoid falling prey to cyber crime and protect your data offline and online.


Information security is founded on an overall organizational strategy based on risk analysis. 
The goal is to create, implement, monitor, assess, maintain, and continuously improve a security posture.
Awareness of the various attacks is an important step in this process. Different types of attacks can threaten 
an organization, such as physical, social engineering, brute force, and others. An attack can result in theft of
information, exposure to sensitive information.

Consequences can range from loss of productivity, damage to the business reputation, and possible legal implications.
Physical security is often overlooked by an organization. However, any object can be stolen, damaged, or destroyed by 
an unauthorized individual. Many attacks are linked to social engineering. Examples include gaining unauthorized access
to a facility, cutting a fiber-optic backbone, breaking into secure spaces, or stealing equipment, such as a computer or
hand-held device, removing RAM or components from a desktop or laptop, or even improper disposal or destruction of 
sensitive organizational information.

Best practices for physical computer security involves securing access to buildings and rooms, such as a server room, 
by locks or access cards, and use surveillance. Audit services, users, and administrators to verify compliance 
with security policies. Secure any backup media, and disable drives. Protect your industrial printers, specifically 
the hard drive. This can be a gold mine for identity theft. Industrial printers are commonly overlooked.

Large printers can print, copy, scan, and fax documents. The range of functions is because it's not just a printer, 
it's a computer that has memory, a processor, and data storage. Drives should use encryption while in use, and wiped
before disposal. A used printer many times is sold for as little as $300, and can hold valuable information on a company's
assets. Social engineering is a con game, relying on influence, social skills, and human interaction to obtain information
about an organization or computer systems.

Malware is a term used to refer to a variety of forms of malicious software, including viruses, worms, Trojan horses, 
ransomware, or spyware. It could be in the form of scripts, executables, or other active content from the web, such as 
animated GIFs, embedded objects, or ActiveX applications. Two main types of malware include viruses and worms. A virus
can self-replicate and spread to other programs within the system. A virus has to have some way to travel to another host,
such as an email attachment.

A worm is like a virus, however, it can spread without any help from a transport agent such as an email attachment, and
can replicate through a system, consuming resources such as memory and processing. Find a user's account's password, and 
you will have the same rights as the user. A brute force attack will try all possible combinations of characters, such as 
password guessing. A dictionary attack is a subset of brute force, and uses a list of common passwords, most likely using
an automated software tool.

Not all attacks are active. Reconnaissance attacks are passive, such as sniffing or scanning, and are done because of a
need to discover information about a network. Denial of service; a denial of service attack is designed to disrupt a 
service with so many requests, legitimate users are locked out. An example is a SIP flood. Session Initiation Protocol 
is used to set up, maintain, and end sessions for communication protocols, such as Voiceover IP and instant messaging.

With a SIP flood, the clients are flooded out with multiple invite message to take down the phone.
